=pod

=encoding UTF-8

=head1 NAME

Proc::tored::Pool - managed work pool with Proc::tored and Parallel::ForkManager

=head1 VERSION

version 0.01

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  use Proc::tored::Pool;

  # Create a worker pool service
  my $pool = pool 'thing-doer', in '/var/run', capacity 10,
    on success, call {
      my ($me, $id, @results) = @_;
      print "thing $id complete: @results";
    },
    on failure, call {
      my ($me, $id, $message) = @_;
      warn "thing $id failed: $message";
    };

  # Do things with the pool
  run {
    my ($thing_id, $thing) = get_next_thing();
    process { do_things($thing) } $pool, $thing_id;
  } $pool;

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Provides a simple and fast interfact to build and manage a pool of forked
worker processes. The process is controlled using a pidfile and POSIX signals.

=head1 EXPORTED SUBROUTINES

As a C<Proc::tored::Pool> is a L<Proc::tored> service, it by default exports
the same functions as L<Proc::tored/EXPORTED SUBROUTINES>.

In addition, the following subroutines are exported by default.

=head2 pool

Creates the pool (an instance of L<Proc::tored::Pool::Loop>). Requires a
C<$name> as its first argument.

  my $pool = pool 'the-proletariat', ...;

=head2 capacity

Sets the max number of forked worker processes to be permitted at any given
time.

  my $pool = pool 'the-proletariat', capacity 16, ...;

=head2 on

Builds an event callback with one of L</assignment>, L</success>, or L</failure>.

  my $pool = pool 'the-proletariat', capacity 16,
    on success, call { ... };

=head2 call

Defines the code to be called by an event callback. See L</on>.

=head2 pending

Returns the number of tasks that have been assigned to worker processes but
have not yet completed.

=head2 process

Sends a task (a C<CODEREF>) to the pool, optionally specifying a task id to
identify the results in callbacks. The return value of the supplied code ref is
passed as is to the L</success> callback (if supplied).

  process { seize_the_means_of_production() } $pool;
  process { seize_the_means_of_production() } $pool, $task_id;

=head1 EVENTS

=head2 assignment

Triggered immediately after a task is assigned to a worker process. Receives
the pool object and the task id (if provided when calling L</pool>).

  my $pool = pool 'thing-doer', ...,
    on assignment, call {
      my ($self, $task_id) = @_;
      $assigned{$task_id} = 1;
    };

  process { do_things() } $pool, $task_id;

=head2 success

Triggered after the completion of a task. Receives the pool object, task id (if
provided when calling L</pool>), and the return value of the code block.

  my $pool = pool 'thing-doer', ...,
    on success, call {
      my ($self, $task_id, @result) = @_;
      ...
    };

  process { do_things() } $pool, $task_id;

=head2 failure

Triggered if the code block dies or the forked worker exits abnormally.
Recieves the pool object, task id (if provided when calling L</pool>), and the
error message generated by the code ref.

  my $pool = pool 'thing-doer', ...,
    on failure, call {
      my ($self, $task_id, $error) = @_;
      warn "Error executing task $task_id: $error";
    };

  process { do_things() } $pool, $task_id;

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<Proc::tored>, L<Parallel::ForkManager>

=head1 AUTHOR

Jeff Ober <jeffober@gmail.com>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

This software is copyright (c) 2017 by Jeff Ober.

This is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the same terms as the Perl 5 programming language system itself.

=cut
